Yeah.
So in the previous video we understood the literal meaning of articulation points and bridges, and
we saw some various examples.
Now in this tutorial, what will be will be understanding how to actually find articulation points in
bridges via algorithms.
I will be using some very good algorithms that have already been discussed the history and back edges
and a very little help of the enemy programming.
If you even do not any programming.
It's all right.
I'll explain everything in this video, I.
So now, guys, this part has been discussed.
Now we're moving on to some new terms.
So we only have two terms in a hole of the concept articulation points and bridges is about this particular
about these two terms and discover time and Lewis time a.
We see that we have a discovered time.
Of a particular note, right?
So every node in the graph will contains one or will contain a discovery reading between.
Sorry.
Yeah.
It will be a discovery.
I discovered that in whatever, every node will contain this way to each and every other.
Discover time.
Now what we have is the lowest time.
So again, every node will also have another time called a lowest time.
What is the lowest time?
What is the discovered time?
Discuss it in detail and we'll make some examples.
Then we will understand that.
Why are we actually finding these times?
Why do we need these times and discover time in listing?
So let's move on by one case.
Let's talk about Discover.
But we all know when we perform the history of any graph.
So we are like continuously finding and finding some nodes.
We are continuously moving onto some nodes.
We are discovering new ones in the DFS.
Okay.
So if a node is not visited, what we do is we just go and we perform DFS.
We visited basically rate for the time at which a note is discovered.
It's called it's discovery time.
So for an example, let me give you a very, very simple example.
It's not a big deal.
Discovery time, lowest time can be a big day, right?
They will understand it, of course.
But going to stand Louis time.
We need to foster understand the discovered thing.
Let's make some normal graph.
And then we will perform of history on this.
Well.
So it's a very simple example, the example I usually take.
So let me like have more of the notes here.
So well.
Now let's mock their Discover template.
So for now, I'm taking a route to be one.
But as I already told you, we can take any node as the root node.
Then whenever we're talking about budget packages, it's discovered time Lewis Time DFC articulation
Boynton Bridges means these are independent of the node 88 feet so mean four days that if.
If you have a particular note to be in articulation point.
If a vertex is an articulation point, then it will be an articulation point.
No matter what road you take, no matter what is the oh, no matter what angle you twist the graph,
it will be an articulation point.
Okay, so we don't have to worry about the root note for now.
Oh, let's mark their discover time.
So I will be writing discover them on the left with whatever you know.
So if I start from one, that means I'm going to be on time equals 218.
So initially time is equal to one eight, but when start from one, let's see the discover time of one
is one one oxygen.
I discovered one.
Now instead of going to do, let's move on to three.
So we we all know that just in DFC we can go in any direction.
It completely depends on the input we have taken right in the code.
It doesn't matter, right?
Wherever we go look.
So let's from volatility, we are going to train the DFS.
Now the DFS moves on to three.
So what is the Discover time of three?
It's two because now these the second note to be discovered.
They?
In the Davis run three.
Let's move to it.
So let's say discovery time of your history.
You guys, that turned out to be discovered, right?
So whenever we are discovering a node, we are marking its timestamp and we are incrementing the time
by one normal name whenever we are going to a new node marking the time and incrementing the time,
removing when we go to the next node will simply.
Use their time.
It is one, two, three.
Now from eight, we won't be able to discover anything new from it.
Will go back, will drive us back.
My DFS will return, of course, to three.
But I know we are on three from three we can go to two.
Right.
So this is the fourth not to be discovered.
Now from two, I cannot go to one because it has already been visited.
We are performing a day of history here.
Eight.
But we all know if an order is visited, we don't go to that note again because we want to.
Three oh, one, two, three and now let's see.
Two is the fortunate to be discovered.
Now from two.
The defense moves on to Fort.
Right.
Well let's call for the time at which we discovered is five let's say moved on the right side.
So it is six here.
Seven.
Then it went to ten.
It will then be if it will come back from 10 to 6 and then from six it will go to seven, eight.
So it will get nine new eight.
Now from seven, we cannot go to four because it's already registered.
So what I'm saying will be done back to six and then back to five, heading back to four, return back
to two and then we can go tonight and this is the 10th.
Not to be too late.
Let me write the notes.
And they're discovery times.
When was discovered.
Her time goes to one.
Two was discovered a time ago.
Two for three were discovered.
Her time was for two was discovered.
A time goes to five.
Six.
Seven.
Nine.
It was discovered that time goes to three.
Nine was discovered.
Discovery time equals to ten and ten was discovered.
The time goes to it.
Right here we can see that we have some unique mappings.
Right.
But every note we have there discovered time spent when performing the DFS.
When was it first discovered?
The time it was first discovered.
I hope the discovery time is very clear to you.
What I do is now I'll simply try to.
Change.
The structure of this graph.
According to the DFC, we have performed a normal thing.
I do.
So at time goes to when I was at one, then I went to three a time to go straight to.
Then I went to two.
But Damond wait.
Time goes to three.
So I'm basically just giving them levels according to their time rate.
One, three, eight.
Now what is to rate so.
From Diego to and yeah, now this is the fourth not to be discovered.
Then the fifth note to be discovered is for six.
Not to be discovered was five.
Seven naught six eight notice ten 1902 rediscovered is seven eight and it is connected from.
Six eight.
So let me try to do.
Another number seven is the ninth notable visitor.
So I hope you are able to see this that I'm actually giving them levels eight discovery according to
their Discovery Times.
If discovery time is when it is on the first level, second level, third level, fourth, I would ensure
the ninth in order to be discovered is seven.
And what is the 10th in order to discover to this nine.
Eight.
So I disconnected from who I went from 2 to 98.
So let me go from Germany.
Always.
So this is a DFC basically of my above graph.
Hey.
So this is their day officially, according to the.
It's over time.
I've just given their Deb just this so that we can easily visualise it basically.
Now, guys, let's make back edges in this graph.
And there are a lot of things to discover, a lot of things to see in this.
Let me just make some packages and I hope their discovery time by this lady.
All right.
So just making some packages and then in the next part will understand what is the lowest time for every
node will.
So.
Yeah.
So Beckett is.
So from one island to three, I went with no baggage.
I came back to three renter, two in from two.
I could have gone to one.
Right.
So that's the baggage.
The one is a big it's.
Eight now.
The next part is from two.
I went two for one, two, five and a six 4 to 7 from six, 7 to 10 night.
I came back to six.
I went to seven from seven.
I could have gone to Fort.
Right.
I, I mean that there is a back edge away from someone when I could have gone to for eight days a package.
And from then I came back to six, five for two, and then I went to nine.
And is it about good snow?
So as we can see in this particular connected graph, if a graph is and nodes.
And a graphic images.
Right.
So we can easily find out how many back at Desert Villa, how many if you performative history that
means and minus when edges will be in mighty desert definition of rain after years and not in minus
one edges.
And it's connected, right?
So end minus one and this will be part of my DFS stream.
These will be the part of my DFS stream.
But these m but to deliver damages to m minus and minus one edges.
The remaining edges are basically back edges.
How many edges were there in total?
Let me counted.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11.
There 11 edges, eight if there are 11 edges here and the total notice ten what is total edges in middle
of history?
They should be n minus when there is nine edges in BFG.
How many packages should I have?
11 minus nine.
There needs to be sketches so we can see that we have only two back edges in this given graph.
Please.
So I hope that is covered by this very clear.
And the history is also clear because it has already been explained away and.
After this.
In the next part, we'll be discussing about the lowest time, what is the lowest time of every note.
And there's some in Bahrain finding or the lowest time is the main part after everything is done.
We don't have to do anything over there.
Well, so thank you, guys in the next part.